 - **Git config**: `git config --global user.name "Dominik Stuerzer"` to set the name, analogously the e-mail. Check status by `git config --list`.
 - Set up **credential cache**: `git config --global credential.helper cache` stores remote login data for a while.
 - **Initalize** Git on the local machine: `git init`.
 - **Clone** from other repo: `git clone` initializes and clones the repo. Adds `origin` remote. 
 - **Status**: `git status` shows status of files in repo. Short version with flag `-s`.
 - **Basics**: Fist time `git add` tracks files. At all times `git add` *stages* a file. `git commit` takes a snapshot of the *staging area*. Unstaged changes will not be committed (even if correspoding file is staged). `git commit -v` puts diff of change in the editor. The flag `-a` stages all tracked files and commits them - it skips the `add`-part.
 - **Remove** a file: `git rm` stages the deletion of a file, the next commit deletes it. However, it can still be checked out in past commits.
 - **Rename**: A file can be renamed by `git mv <old_name> <new_name>`, the namechange is then staged.
 - **Untrack** a file by `git rm --cached <file>`: it is removed from staging area, and not tracked any more. If a previously committed file is untracked, checking out past commits will result in a conflict.
 - **Unstage**: To undo a `git add <file>` (i.e. remove it from the stagin area), use `git reset HEAD <file>`.
 - **Unmodify** a file: `git checkout -- <file>` overwrites file in working directory with last commited version. *Danger*: Any changes since last commit will be lost!
 - **Diff (1)**: running simply `git diff` shows the diff between working directory and staging area (i.e. still unstaged changes). If nothing has been staged since last commit, `git diff` shows the diff between last commit and working directory. Adding the flag `--staged`, it shows the diff between last commit and staging area.
 - **Log**: Possible flags: `-p` shows difference introduced in each commit. `-<n>` limits output to past `n` commits. `--stat` shows change stats. `--graph` visualizes branches. `--relative-date` show relative date. `--decorate` shows the positions of the branch pointers.
 - **Amend**: `git commit --amend` adds currently staged changes to your last commit, and you can edit the last commit message. You don't get a new commit. 
 - **Branches**: `git branch <new branch name>` creates a new branch (which is nothing but a pointer). To switch a branch, do `git checkout <branch>`. `git checkout -b <branch name>` creates and switches to new branch. A list of all branches is shown by `git branch`, and the current branch is marked with a `*`. The last commit per branch is shown by `git branch -v`. The flags `--merged` and `--no-merged` show the branches that have or haven't been merged into the current branch yet. 
 - **Merging**: Check out the branch you would like to merge into (often `master`), and then run `git merge <other branch>`. One of two scenarious will happen then:

  - *Fast Forward Merge*: If the branch to be merged is directly ahead of the branch to be merged into (e.g. `master`), then merging simply moves the `master`-pointer forward to the other branch's pointer. No conflicts happen here. The other branch can be deleted after that by `git branch -d <new branch>`.
  - *Three way merge*: New snapshot is created from the snapshots the two branch-pointers point to, and then commited. Here, conflicts can arise, which will interrupt the merge-process. `git status` shows which files contain conflicts. Conflicts are marked in the files, and can be removed manually. After that `git commit` finalizes the merge.

 - **Remotes**: Show all remotes by `git remote -v`, and delete a remote by `git remote rm <origin>`. To add a a new remote repo, run `git remote add <shortname> <url>`. Remote branches are accessible through `<remotename>/<branchname>`. If you have a local repo, and want to create a remote repo from the local one, first create a remote repo, but don't initialize it. Then `add origin`, then `git push -u origin master`. The `-u`-flag enables tracking of the remote branch.
 - **Cloning**: Clones a (remote) repo and creates remote-tracking branches for each branch in the cloned repo. Then `git fetch` will update all remote-tracking branches, and `git pull` will additionally merge the remote master branch into the current master branch.
 - **Fetch**: The command `git fetch <remotename>` pulls all new data from remote, but it does not merge it or modify any current of your work. If a local branch *tracks* the remote branch, then `git pull` automatically fetches and merges the remote branch into your current local branch. `git fetch --all` fetches from all remotes.
 - **Push**: The command `git push <remote-name> <branch-name>` pushes local changes of branch to remote. If `push` results in a conflict, then you have first to fetch and incorporate the remote changes, before pushing is allowed.
 - **Inspecting a Remote**: `git remote show <remote name>` shows more information about the remote. `git ls-remote <remote>` shows all remote references.
 - **Remote branches**: References to the state of remote branches, act as bookmarks to reming you where the remote branches were the last time you connected to them. Remote branches are of the form `<remote>/<branch>`. `git fetch <remote>` updates any data from remote that you don't have, and moves the `origin/master`-pointer to its up-to-date position. Other branches need to be manually merged. A local branch can be pushed to remote by `git push origin <branch>`. If a remote branch is fetched, you can create your own local version by `git checkout -b <local branch> <remote>/<branch>`.
 - **Tracking branches**: If on a tracking branch `git pull` automatically fetches and merges from the upstream branch. To set up a tracking branch `git checkout --track <remote>/<branch>`. To track a remote branch from an existing local branch, do `git branch -u <remote>/<branch>`. To show all tracking branches, type `git branch -vv`. Push local branch to tracking branch on the remote by `git push -u origin <local_branch>:<remote_branch_name>`.
 - **Pulling**: When on a tracking branch, it fetches and merges.
 - **Deleting**: Delete a remote branch by `git push origin --delete <branch>`.

